# Multicluster Permissioned Chain

This tutorial will walk you through setting up a Tezos based
permissioned blockchain. You will spin up one bootstrap peer node. You are also able to spin up additional peer nodes if you wish. These nodes will be running in a Kubernetes cluster in a peer-to-peer network.

## Prerequisites

- python3
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/kubectl/)
- [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/)
- [helm](https://helm.sh/)
- A [ZeroTier](https://www.zerotier.com/) network with api access token

## Installing prerequisites

This section varies depending on OS.

### Mac with homebrew

Make sure [homebrew](https://brew.sh/) is installed:

```shell
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install.sh)"
```

Install prerequisites:

```shell
brew install python3 kubectl minikube helm
```

### Arch Linux

```shell
pacman -Syu && pacman -S python3 minikube kubectl kubectx helm
```

## Zerotier

Create a ZeroTier network:

- Go to https://my.zerotier.com
- Login with google credentials or create a new account
- Create a new API access token by clicking on the "Generate New
  Token" button. Save the generated access token. e.g. "yEflQt726fjXuSUyQ73WqXvAFoijXkLt"
- Go to https://my.zerotier.com/network
- Create a new network by clicking on the "Create a Network"
  button. Save the 16 character generated network
  id. e.g. "1c33c1ced02a5eee"

Set environment variables so we can access these values with later commands:

```shell
ZT_TOKEN=yEflQt726fjXuSUyQ73WqXvAFoijXkLt
ZT_NET=1c33c1ced02a5eee
```

Give your private chain a name:

```shell
CHAIN_NAME=my_chain
```

Set unbuffered IO for python:

```shell
PYTHONUNBUFFERED=x
```

## Ensure minikube is running

```shell
minikube start
```

Configure shell environment to use minikube’s Docker daemon:

```shell
eval $(minikube docker-env)
```

## mkchain

Follow the [Install mkchain](./mkchain/README.md#install-mkchain) step in `mkchain/README.md`. See there for more info on how you can customize your chain.

## Start your chain

Run the following command to create the helm configuration and feed it to helm:

```shell
mkchain $CHAIN_NAME --zerotier-network $ZT_NET --zerotier-token $ZT_TOKEN

helm install $CHAIN_NAME charts/tezos \
--values mkchain/generated-values/${CHAIN_NAME}_values.yaml \
--namespace tqtezos --create-namespace
```

Your kubernetes cluster will now be running a series of jobs to
perform the following tasks:

- get a zerotier ip
- generate a node identity
- generate a genesis block for your chain
- activate the protocol
- bake the first block
- start the bootstrap-node node and a baker to validate the chain

You can find your node in the tqtezos namespace using kubectl.

```shell
kubectl -n tqtezos get pods
```

You can view logs for your node using the following command:

```shell
kubectl -n tqtezos logs -l appType=tezos -c tezos-node -f
```

Congratulations! You now have an operational Tezos based permissioned
chain running one node.

## Adding nodes within the cluster

You can configure a self-contained testnet within your cluster with
a number of nodes of your choice by passing `--number-of-nodes N` to
`mkchain`. You can use this to scale up and down.

Or if you previously spun up the chain using `mkchain`, you may scale up/down your setup to an arbitrary number of nodes by adding or removing nodes in the `nodes` list in the values yaml file:

The nodes will establish peer-to-peer connections in a full mesh topology.

```
# mkchain/generated-values/${CHAIN_NAME}_values.yaml
...
nodes:
  - bake_for: baker
  - {} # second non-baking node
  - {} # third non-baking node
...
```

## Adding external nodes to the cluster

External nodes to your local cluster can be added to your network by sharing a yaml file
generated by the `mkchain` command.

The file is located at: `mkchain/generated-values/${CHAIN_NAME}_invite_values.yaml`

Send this file to the recipients you want to invite.

### On the computer of the joining node

The member needs to:

1. Follow the [prerequisite installation instructions](#installing-prerequisites)
2. [Setup minikube](#ensure-minikube-is-running)
3. [Install mkchain](./mkchain/README.md#install-mkchain)

Then run:

```shell
helm install $CHAIN_NAME charts/tezos \
--values <INVITEES_PATH_TO>/${CHAIN_NAME}_invite_values.yaml \
--namespace tqtezos --create-namespace
```

At this point additional nodes will be added in a full mesh
topology.

Congratulations! You now have a multi-cluster Tezos based permissioned
chain.

Check that the nodes have matching heads by comparing their hashes (it may take a minute for the nodes to sync up):

```shell
kubectl get pod -n tqtezos -l appType=tezos -o name |
while read line;
  do kubectl -n tqtezos exec $line -c tezos-node -- /usr/local/bin/tezos-client rpc get /chains/main/blocks/head/hash;
done
```

## RPC Authentication

You can optionally spin up an RPC authentication server allowing clients with your given permission to make RPC calls:

```shell
mkchain create $CHAIN_NAME --rpc-auth ...
```

### Current authentication flow

The client authenticates themselves and will receive a secret url that allows them to make RPC calls.

- You provide a trusted client with your cluster ip/address and your private tezos chain id.
- To see your chain id:
  ```shell
  kubectl exec -it -n tqtezos deployment/tezos-bootstrap-node -c tezos-node -- tezos-client rpc get /chains/main/chain_id
  ```
  Or use a tool like like [Lens](https://k8slens.dev/) or run `kubectl logs -n tqtezos deployment/tezos-bootstrap-node -c tezos-node` to see the tezos node logs at the top.
- client runs: `scripts/rpc-auth-client.sh --cluster-address $CLUSTER_IP --tz-alias $TZ_ALIAS --chain-id $CHAIN_ID`
- TZ_ALIAS is the alias of a client's tz address secret key. The client's secret key is used to sign some data for the server to then verify.
- If the client is authenticated, the response should contain a secret url such as `http://192.168.64.51/tezos-node-rpc/ffff3eb3d7dd4f6bbff3f2fd096722ae/`
- Client can then make RPC requests:
  - `curl http://192.168.64.51/tezos-node-rpc/ffff3eb3d7dd4f6bbff3f2fd096722ae/chains/main/chain_id`
  - Bug in tezos client v8, so as of version `tezos/tezos:master_08d3405e_20201113152010`:
    - `tezos-client --endpoint http://192.168.64.51/tezos-node-rpc/ffff3eb3d7dd4f6bbff3f2fd096722ae/ rpc get chains/main/chain_id`
